              
1)  What is an API?
        An API (Application Programming Interface) is a software intermediary that enables two applications to communicate with each other using HTTP protocol.
        API examples, here are the well-known ones: Google Maps API, Amazon Advertising API, Twitter API, YouTube API, etc. 
        
2) what all challenges are inculded in API testing ?
   Challenges inculded in APi testing are 
   APi documentation :To test an APi we firstly  need endpoint ,parameters ,Resouces ,payload it's not like Ui testing( we start with url)
   authorization     :while hiting any api  request authorization is needed to hit that request using token.
   DB access         :When we hit api request , we get response from server and then do data vaildation so DB access is needed.
   
3) post and put method in API ?
   Post request : It is used to Create new object on server.
   Put Request  : It is used to Update the object in server with New value( Update/modify existing one ) .
   
4) What all methods are there in API testing ? what is difference between Put and Patch??
   Get    :It is used to retrieve the data from server .
   Post   :it is used to add the data to resources in the server.
   Put    :It is used to update the existing file /resources in server.
   Delete :It is used to delete data from server.

  PUT  :Put is used to replace an entire resource with a new one.
  PATCH:Patch is used to update a resource partially, such as by changing the values of one or more fields.

5 )  Authentication technilque used in Api ?
    The primary API authentication techniques include
     API Keys authentication    :A simple method where a unique,static key is generated by the server and included in each request,typically in a header or query parameter.
     Basic Authentication       :This is one of the oldest and simplest methods, where a username and password (combined with a colon and Base64-encoded) 
                                are sent in the HTTP Authorization header with every request.
     Token-Based Authentication:After initial authentication (e.g., with username and password), the server issues a temporary access token. 
                                This token is then sent with subsequent requests, usually in the Authorization: Bearer header.
     OAuth 2.0                 : An industry-standard authorization framework that allows a third-party application to access user's data on another service
                                (e.g.Google, Facebook)without the user sharing their password. It issues access tokens with defined (permissions) and expiration times.
     
6 ) why Api testing is determined as most suitable form of automation testing ? what is the reasong for API being light in nature?
     API automation is faster, more stable because it bypasses the UI layer validation and directly validates core business logic. 
     It also requires less maintenance and fits perfectly into CI/CD pipelines compared to UI automation.

    APIs are light in nature because they exchange only raw data (like JSON or XML) without rendering UI elements, images, or styles. 
    They also run directly over HTTP and avoid browser processing, making requests small, fast, and resource-efficient.
    
7)  what is Rest API ?( Representational state transfer).
    A REST API is an API that follows REST principles to allow systems to communicate over HTTP using standard methods like GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE.
    In Rest APi interaction is made though HTTP protocol.
    
8 ) what exactly needs to verify in API testing ?
    a) accuracy of data ( whatever the data we are getting in response( json format that is same as dB or not).
    b) will verify HTTP status code
    c) Response time 
    d) Error code verification ( 401- ,403 error)
    e) Authorization ( Every one doesn't have permission to access APi as valid credential is needed) to access the APi.
    
9 ) Path Paramter and  Query paramter in API ?
      URL  :  https://rahulshettyacademy.com/orders/122345?location=IND 
      Here   https://rahulshettyacademy.com ( API which we are using ) 
             Orders ( resource ) 
             https://rahulshettyacademy.com/orders/122345( Path parameter)- In this api we are going to orders resource and then navigating to order no 122345 
             ?location=IND ( Query Paramter) 
            
10 )  What are the component of HTTP request in API testing  
      URI : It is endpoint where API is hosted.( https://rahulshettyacademy.com)
      HTTP reuest Method : GET ,Put, Post ,Delete
      Resource ( like above orders is resource)
      parameters ( Query paramter) 
      Request Header (A request header in an API request contains metadata such as authentication details,content type,and client information sent along with the request) .
      Request Body ( It indicates message content ) 
      suppose if there is add employee api and I want to add the details of employee to the API so i will send the data ( empname ,empid )
      through request body in json format .
       
11)    If there is an api scenario with endpoint , paramters ,Header , cookies and payload ( Which type of request is getting used Get / post?) 
       If in scenario there is Payload then it is the case of post request beacause payload is message content which we send in Body As a content message.
       
12)  Difference between Restful Web service and Soap Webservice ?
      RestFul webservice:HTTp protocol( it is medium for communication beetween client and server)-
                        :Uses json request for messaging service
                        :Network bandwidth less required- faster (light in nature) 
      Soap webservice  : Soap protocol (simple object access protocol )
                       : uses XML request for messaging service)
                       : More Bandwidth required-Slow in nature.
      
13)  Can we use Get request instead of Post to Create a resource ?
      No,We can't.As Get is used only for Read/ Retrieve the  data.
      
14 )  Can We use Post Request instead of Put to create a resource ?
      yes we can use Post request instead of Put to create a resource as it is super set of all HTTP method .

15 ) What is Payload in APi testing ?
     Payload/ Body is a secured data which is sent to API to process the request.
     This Payload/body data it will be in json format .
 
16)   What is Rest assured ?
      It is a java Library which is used to automate Rest APi .
          
17 ) Json Serialization and Deserialization ?
     Converting Java Object into Json Format -Json Serialization 
     Converting Json to Java Object          - Json Deserialzation
     
18) Status code and Corresponding Message in APi testing .
    200 - Ok
    201 - created
    204 - No content ( request succesful but there is no content to return).
    3Xx - (302  temproray redirect) 
    400 - Bad Request ( Invalid Request - If wrong parameter or wrong query ) 
    401 - Unauthorized ( we get this code when autthentication for APi and credential is invalid , Token is not correct ) 
    403 - Forbidden    ( User Authorized sucessfuly but don't have permission to access that APi ) 
    404 - Not Found   ( Resource itself is not avilable in server e.g if i want to add employee details and add Employee itself is not there on server) 
    500 - Internal server error ( Request is not completed due to internal error on serverr side)
    503 - Service Unavilable ( Server is unavilable/ might be down ) 
    
20 ) what is collection in postman??
     In Postman, a collection is a group of API requests organized together.

 21) How data is stored in payload ?
     dasboard.Purchaseamount ( This way we can access Json data) 
     Courses is an array so we can access Courses[0].Details.site ( To access course details site
    { 
       "dashboard" : 
       {
          "Purchaseamount" : 900,
          "Website"        : "webshop.com" 
       },
       
      " Courses" : [
          
          " Price"     :50 ,
          " Corsename" :Math,
          " Details" : 
               {
                  "site" : "shop.com"
               },
               
               {
                 "title " : " thhhj",
                " price " : 60,
                 "copies" : 2
               
               },
      
                  ]
 
 }
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
     





































    
     
      
      

   
       
     
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
    
    
    
     
     
    
    

























        
        
         
         
